## Building Your Own Hooks FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html
- Extract component logic into reusable functions
- Two components can share the logic from another function
- Custom hooks start with the word use and can have other hooks inside. 
- Two components using the same hook do not share the same state, but do share the same stateful logic. Side effects are isolated to that component. 
- Hooks are functions --> can pass info between them 
- When creating your own hook, avoid abstraction too early. Custom hooks are good for hiding complex logic. 
- Redux reducer - good for complex update logic. Can break reducers down int o smaller reducers as needed. --> React has a `useReducer()`

## Rules of Hooks FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-rules.html
- React has a linter plugin for Hook rules called 'eslint-olugin-react-hooks`. It comes with Create React App. 
  - `npm install eslint-plugin-react-hooks --save-dev`. Checks react rules for Hooks and effect dependencies. 
- Rules:
  - Call hooks at the top level, not inside loops, conditionals, or nested functions. Hooks are called in order on render. 
    - If the hook is nested or in a conditional and it skips the first one, the logic won't match for the rest as the hooks and effects don't match --> everything is shifting by one --> leading to bugs. 
    - To use a conditional, it needs to go INSIDE the hook. 
  - Can only call Hooks in React, not JS functions. You can also call hooks inside a custom hook. 

## The Guide to Learning React Hooks (Examples & Tutorials) FROM https://www.telerik.com/kendo-react-ui/react-hooks-guide/#hooks-for-state-and-effects 
- Help write clearer and concise code 
- HOOKS
  - Go at the top level
  - call in functional components 
  - can't call in regular function 
  - hooks can call other hooks

- Eslint plugin to help enforce rules
- Can call useState and useEffect many times
- useEffect is like the componentDidMount in class components 
- useContext helps make the jsx cleaner
- useReducer - takes in state and action as arguments- returns an accumulation the state. 
- inputRef calls useRef hook
- Custom Hooks
  - Anything that can be a function can also be a react hook

## 10 React Hooks You Should Have in Your Toolbox FROM https://blog.bitsrc.io/10-react-custom-hooks-you-should-have-in-your-toolbox-aa27d3f5564d
- Custom react hooks overview - link to docs in reading
- useArray hook 
  - access to many array manipulation methods
  - react-hanger-package
  - `import { useArray } from 'react-hanger`
- react-use-form-state hook
  - small react hook to simplify managing form state 
  - npm i react-use-form-state
  - import at top of page `import { useFormState } from 'react-use-form-state'`
- react-fetch-hook
  - for ajax calls
  - npm i react-fetch-hook
  - `import { useFetch } from 'react-fetch-hook`
  - useFetch() takes in isLoading (state) and data
- useMedia hook
  - senor hook that tracks the state of a CSS media query
  - import at the top of the page `import { useMedia } from 'use-media'`
  - returns a boolean response 
- react-useportal hook
  - render children into a DOM node that is outsole the DOM hierarchy of the parent component
  - `import usePortal from 'react-useportal'`
  - openPortal and closePortal methods
  - boolean value for isOpen
- react-firebase-hooks
  - npm install react-firebase-hooks
  - `useAuthState`hook for authentication -- import at the top of the page `import { useAuthState } from 'react-firebase-hooks/auth'` - (note: firebase app)
- use-onClickOutside Hook
  - tells us if a user clicks everything but a specific component 
  - import at the top of file `import useOnClickOutside from 'use-onclickoutside'`
- useIntersectionObserver hook
  - npm install react-use-intersection-observer
  - import at the top `import useIntersectionObserver from 'react-use-intersection-observer'`
- use-location hook
  - get location of the browser 
  - useful and easy to use!
  - import at the top `import { useLocation } from 'react-use'`
- use-redux hook
  - returns store and dispatch property
  - import at top of file `import { useRedux } from 'use-redux'`
  - `const [ state, dispatch ] = useRedux()`
    - dispatch fires actions that causes changes in the store 
