## Architectural Styles and Architectural Patterns FROM https://medium.com/@mlbors/architectural-styles-and-architectural-patterns-c240f7df88a0#:~:text=Architectural%20Patterns%20VS%20Design%20Patterns&text=In%20a%20few%20words%2C%20while,and%20mechanisms%20of%20a%20system.
- Architectural Pattern: reusable solution to a reoccurring problem. How systems fit together and data flows. 
  - Can have multiple patterns in a single system
- Design patterns: have a specific scope
- Architectural Patterns: high-level strategies for large-scale components
- Architectural Style: name given to a reoccurring Architectural Design -- doesn't solve a problem.
- Idiom: a low-level pattern 

- Layered: Pattern used to structure programs (decomposed subtasks)
  - Presentation layer (UI layer)
  - Application layer (Service layer)
  - Business logic layer (Domain layer)
  - Data access layer (Persistence layer)
  - MVC model-view-control is a layered architecture example
  - each layer focuses on a role

- Event Driven (EDA)
  - Event emitters and event consumers 
  - Emitter: only knows an event has occurred 
  - Consumer: knows event has occurred and reacts
  - Often used for async systems 

- Domain Driven Design (DDD)
  - Object-oriented approach 
  - design based on business domain (relationships between elements and behaviors)
  - solving problems of an organization 
  - eases communication and improves flexibility 
  - DDD is a way of looking at things, not about how to code

- Pipes and Filters
  - Filters transform the data it receives through pipes 
  - Pump is the data source, and Sink is the final target.

- Microservices
  - create several tiny programs instead of one big app
  - services are independent of each other
  - useful for developing web apps rapidly 

## Container and Presentation Pattern FROM https://alchemycodelab.github.io/fsjs-notes/05_react/patterns/container_presentation/
- Container and Presentation pattern splits code into two places
  - Containers: contains business logic, how things work (e.g., manage state, api fetches, etc.)
  - Presentations: stateless. present data. How things look. Receive props and use them to render and style DOM. 

## Container Component Details FROM https://alchemycodelab.github.io/fsjs-notes/05_react/patterns/container_presentation/container-details
- Container components (classes) and presentational components (functions)
- Class -- extends react component 
  - state -- set state with `this.setState({ field: value })`
  - Can fetch data in `componentDidMount` and set it state using `setState`
  - `componentDidUpdate` used if component needs to fetch data based on a user interaction
  - `useState` hook - can use multiple `useState` in a component 
    - need to import from react at top 
    - independent state change - `setSomeState`
    - dependent state change - `someState`
  - fetching data and setting the data to state is a side effect
    - handle side effects with `useEffect`. Takes two arguments. 1: function that performs the side effect. 2: array that triggers the side effect. 
  - containers can also be written as customer hooks 

## Presentation Component Details FROM https://alchemycodelab.github.io/fsjs-notes/05_react/patterns/container_presentation/presentation-details
- the look of the page, creating DOM and styles
- can return markup that is rendered to DOM
- props are often passed. When using props, you should use propTypes to specify prop type. Also, propTypes gives good warning messages. 

## Functional vs Class-Components in React FROM https://medium.com/@Zwenza/functional-vs-class-components-in-react-231e3fbd7108
- Can write components using ES6  or a JS function that returns a React element. 
- Functional vs Class Components -- Differences: 
  - Syntax: 
    - Functional -- plain JS function that returns React element.
    - Class -- extends React.Component and the render function returns a React element
  - Also differences with the transpiled babel code
  - Functional components...
    - Cannot used `setState()` with functional components because it's a JS function.
    - functional component does not have it's own state
    - If you need state, use class component 
    - cannot use life cycle hooks with functional components 
  - Benefits of Functional Components: 
    - easier to read and test
    - less code
    - easier to separate container and presentational components
    - may have performance benefits in later versions
- Functional components for presentational components with no need for state or lifecycle hooks. 

## Conditional Rendering FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html
- Render depending on state of app
- Can use if/else or inline if with &&
- Inline If && 
  - true && expression 
    - if true, the expression will run. If false, it is skipped.
  - false && expression
- Inline If Else Conditional ?
  - condition ? true : false
- Prevent rendering 
  - return null instead of output 
