## Model-View-Control FROM https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller
- software design pattern used for developing UIs
- divides logic into 3 interconnected elements 
- Model:
  - central component - manages the data, logic and rules of the app. Receives input from controller
- View: 
  - representation of info like charts, diagrams,or tables. 
- Controller: 
  - accepts input --> converts it for model or view

- History: 
  - Trygve Reenskaug introduced MVC in 1970s
  - MVC --> variant HMVC --> MVA --> MVP --> and more
  - MVC became very popular in 1996
  - Originally developed for desktop computer, but MVC is also used for designing web apps now. 
  - Some frameworks enforce the MVC pattern 

## The 4 Layers of Single Page Applications You Need to Know FROM https://hackernoon.com/architecting-single-page-applications-b842ea633c2e
- Goal: create, delete, and like articles 
- Create React App and Flow for type checking 
- "React will efficiently update and render just the right components when your data changes"
- State: represents the data that changes in the app
- Domain layer: describes the state and holds business logic
- Flow enforces immutability - read only
- `Object.freeze()` - prevents an object from having properties added to hit
- The Store Layer - holds the state.
- Application Services - project state 
- The View Layer - has Presentational (receive state through props) and Container components (receive state from the store and supply state to the presentational components)

## A Model View Controller Pattern for React FROM https://blog.testdouble.com/posts/2019-11-04-react-mvc/
- Potential Issues: 
  - Shotgun surgery: one change --> many components need changing 
  - Divergent changes: one components needs many edits to accommodate a change. 
  - Duplicated code: repeated code in different components 
  - Primitive obsession: repetitive low-level logic
  - Repeated conditionals: duplicated switching logic in components
- Problem: Components knowing too much --> Solution: MVC helps with this!
- MVC - model is most important 
  - "model is a collection of functions and objects specific to the app's domain"
- React is a mix of FP and OOP. 
- Some say that MVC doesn't scale 
- MVC in React 
  - 2 pillars: Presentational layer and UI agnostic Data model 
  - Controller components and View components 
    - Controllers can query and mutate data via RESTful API or read and update data
    - View: should not know about app state, should not call on hooks expect for UI specific cases
    - Be aware of naming and casing 
 - Decoupling helps with testing, easier to make changes. Business changes won't impact other parts of the code. 
 - Generally, controller = container AND view = presentational 
 - Functional programming is the preferred pattern in React apps. 
 - MVC does not require string FP or OOP

 ## Reconciliation FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html
 - `render()` - like a tree of React elements 
 - Problem: How to efficiently update UI to match most recent "tree".
 - React uses O(n) algorithm 
  - 2 elements of different types will produce different trees
  - hint at stable child elements across different renders with key prop

- The Diffing Algorithm 
  - React compares the two root elements
  - Elements of Different Types: 
    - If they are different, React removes old tree and builds a new one from scratch 
    - switching from a tag to img tag will trigger a full rebuild
    - components below the root will also be destroyed along with it's state
  - DOM elements of the same type:
    - React looks at the attributes and keeps the DOM node and just updates the changed attributes
  - Component Elements Of The Same Type
    - state is maintained across renders
  - Recursing On Children
    - Iterates over both and mutates if there is a difference (e.g., adding or removing an li)
    - Adding an li at the top will cause performance issues because react will replace all the child elements. Best to add at the end. 
    - Keys: Adding keys helps with this problem. React looks at the keys before mutating. 
      - keys only need to be unique amongst the siblings. Doesn't have to be unique globally. Should be stable, predictable, and unique. Don't use `Math.random()` for keys. 
      - if an id isn't available (for the key), can use the item index as last resort. This works well if items are never shuffled. If they are reordered, this makes it slow. Reorders can cause issues with component state in this case. 
- Reconciliation Algorithm is an implementation detail 
- React relies on heuristics - react team is regularly refining them to make common use cases faster 

