## Context FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
- Provides a way to pass data through a component tree without needing to pass props
- "global" data in a react tree of components (e.g., user authentication)
- need to create a context `const ThemeContext = React.createContext('defaultValue')`
- Need a Provider - has opening and closing tag - `<ThemeContext.Provider value="someTheme">`
- Use context carefully as it makes component hard to reuse
- Context is good for managing themes, data cache, current locale.

**Context API**
- Note: examples from site
- Create a context `const MyContext = React.createContext(defaultValue);`
  - context object
  - finds closest matching Provider. Default value used if no match is found.
- Create a context provider `<MyContext.Provider value={/* some value */}>`
  - Provider takes in a value prop
  - One provider can be connected to many consumers
  - can be nested
  - connected consumers will re-render when provider's value changes
  - `Object.is` used to determine a change (compares old value with new value)
- contextType property `MyClass.contextType = MyContext` allows for something to consume the nearest current value of that context using `this.context`. Note, this can only be referenced in a lifecycle method. 
- `<Context.Consumer> {value -> context value based render...}</Context.Consumer>` - subscribe to a context in a function component. Note, if there is no value match, then the default value is used.
- `displayName` - string property 
- Can use context to toggle theme colors
- each context consumer is a separate node in the node tree
- a component can consume many contexts. In this example, ThemeContext and UserContext. 
- Watch out for...
  - unintentional re=renders: consumers might re-render when the provider's parent re-renders
