## An intro to Webpack: what it is and how to use it FROM https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/an-intro-to-webpack-what-it-is-and-how-to-use-it-8304ecdc3c60/
- JS modules --> more files
- Helper code - polyfills - help browsers interpret code packages
- WEBPACK - static module bundler 
  - goes through app and makes dependency graph, figures out what it needs to function. Makes a bare bones package (of files) called bundle.js and can be plugged into an html file and used to run the app. 

- Set up a webpack create-react-app without CLI tool 
  - npm init -- creates package json for dependencies
  - install react libraries `npm i react react-dom --save`
  - install webpack to bundle `npm i webpack webpack-dev-server webpack-cli --save--dev`
  - (NOTE: the save and dev notes the modules are dev dependencies)
  - install babble to transpile code for browsers `npm i babel-core babel-loader @babel/preset-react     @babel/preset-env html-webpack-plugin --save-dev`
  - add webpack.config.js file at the root of app file tree. Need to require plugins in the file. See article. 
    -Webpack only understands JS and JSON, if app uses other languages, need to say what to do with the language in the module.exports object.
  - in index.js in src folder, import React and ReactDOM. 
  - hot reloading (detect change and browser auto reloads). Add the following to package.json
    - `"start": "webpack-dev-server --mode development --open --hot"`
    - `"build": "webpack --mode production"`
  - Now, can `npm start` to serve HTML file in browser. Once ready, `npm build` and webpack will bundle project for deployment. 

## Webpack Concepts FROM https://webpack.js.org/concepts/
- webpack builds an internal dependency graph. 
- Webpack Concepts:
  - Entry Point: builds the graph depending on what the entry point (file.js) needs. Note: can have multiple entry points. 
  - Output: output.filename and the output.path, name of file and where it should be emitted.
  - Loaders: Webpack only understands JS and JSON. Allows webpack to process other kinds of files and convert them and add them to dependency graph. Loaders have two properties, 'test' and 'use'. 
  - Plugins: Can add plugins but need to require at the top of the file and npm install them.
  - Mode: can change depending on environment 
  - Browser Compatibility: Note, webpack runs on node.js 8.x and up. 

  ```js
  // FROM SITE. In webpack.config.js file add the following. 
  const path = require('path');
  // Require plugin and webpack to access plugins
  const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin');
  const webpack = require('webpack');


  module.exports = {
    // Entry point file, which file to build a dependency graph on
    entry: './path/to/my/entry/file.js',
    output: {
      // Where to be emitted to
      path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
      // Name of bundle
      filename: 'my-first-webpack.bundle.js'
    },
    // Loaders
    module: {
      rules: [
        { test: /\.txt$/, use: 'raw-loader' }
      ]
    },
    plugins: [
      new HtmlWebpackPlugin({template: './src/index.html'})
    ],
    // Can change depending on the environment (e.g., dev, production, none)
    mode: 'production'
  };
  ```

## Rendering Elements FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html
- Elements: Smallest building blocks of react apps. What you see on the screen. Elements are immutable, cannot be changed.
  - Elements are not components. Components are made up of elements. 
- Render Element to DOM:
  - Div with an id of root. Root DOM node is managed by React DOM. 
  - React apps usually have one root DOM node. 
  - Pass element and root node to `React.DOM.render()` and get element by id (root). 

  ```js
  // Example form site - renders hello world
  const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;
  ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));
  ```

  - Elements are immutable. To update element like a clock, you can set an interval and make a function with the element. Call function every x seconds. 

## Hello World FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html
- React - building blocks that can create reusable pieces in a complex app. 

## Introducing JSX FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html
- JSX is a syntax extension of JavaScript. Markup and logic together in a component. React doesn't require JSX, but using it helps with better error and warning messages. Helpful visual aid when working with UI --> JS Code. JSX prevents injection (XSS) attacks because React DOM escapes embedded values before rendering them. 
  - JavaScript goes inside curly braces `{}`...the magic portal.
  - EXPRESSIONS: JSX can be function as well...can use JSX with if statements and accept arguments, and have returns. 
  - ATTRIBUTES: JSX can have attributes using strings with double quotes or embed JS using the curly braces. When injecting JS, do not add quotes. JSX, like JS, using camelCase for attributes. 
  - TAGS: JSX can have everything in closing tag (if tag is empty) or have an opening and closing tag. JSX tags can have children inside. 
  - COMPILE: JSX represents objects. Babel compiles JSX DOWN TO `React.createElement( JSX GOES HERE )`.

  ```js
  // Translation Example FROM SITE (NOTE: Same as below)
  const element = (
    <h1 className="greeting">
      Hello, world!
    </h1>
  );

  // Translation Example FROM SITE (NOTE: Same as above)
  const element = React.createElement(
    'h1',
    {className: 'greeting'},
    'Hello, world!'
  );

  // Compiled Example FROM SITE
  const element = {
    type: 'h1',
    props: {
      className: 'greeting',
      children: 'Hello, world!'
    }
  };


