## Understanding React 'setState' FROM https://css-tricks.com/understanding-react-setstate/
- components often have state
- `setState()` - used to update state in react. Pass in what you want to update (state) to `setState()`
  - ex. `setState({ somethingToUpdate: value })`
- Reconciliation process: React updating the DOM by modifying the component based off of something changing in state. 
- Process: 
  - state searchTerm is empty
  - user searches 
  - term is stored using `setState()`
  - Reconciliation: react updates
  - searchTerm is updated 

- Pass a function to `setState()`
  - `Object.assign()` - used to copy data from source object to target object

  ```js
  // Count example FROM SITE
  let count = 3

  const object = Object.assign({}, 
    {count: count + 1}, 
    {count: count + 2}, 
    {count: count + 3}
  );
  ```

- Access previous state using updater. Updater allows us access to current state.
  - `setState()` should be viewed as async therefore we should not expect that state has been updated after calling `setState()`.
- Note:
  - Update component state using `setState()`
  - Can pass an object or function to `setState()`
    - Pass a function to update state multiple times 
  - treat `setState()` as async. Do not depend on `this.state`, use an updater function to get current value. 


## List and Keys FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html
- {}...build collection of elements and include them in JSX. 
- Create a list: Can map through array and create `<li>`s with the numbers array. Then use ReactDom.render() and pass it the new mapped array listItems (the li's) and nest it in a `<ul>`.
- Keys: should be unique. IDs are usually the keys. If IDs don't work, you can use item index as a last resort (not recommended as the index may change).
  - Correct usage: Usually elements inside a `map()` need keys. 
  - Keys only need to be unique with arrays (it's siblings). Do not need to be unique globally. 

## Typechecking With PropTypes FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/typechecking-with-proptypes.html
- Typechecking - helps with catching bugs
- Extension options: Flow or TypeScripts. Built-in options: PropTypes (need to import `import PropTypes from 'prop-types'`)

```js
// Example Use of PropTypes FROM SITE 
import PropTypes from 'prop-types';

class Greeting extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>
    );
  }
}

Greeting.propTypes = {
  name: PropTypes.string
};
```

- Can use PropTypes to require only a single child is passed to component 
  - `PropTypes.element`
- Assign default values to props using `componentGoesHere.defaultProps = { name: 'Default Name Here }`

## Components and Props FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html
- Components let you divide UI into little "blocks", reusable pieces. 
- Function components - javascript functions 
- Components can represent DOM tags (like div) or be user created like `<SearchBar>`
- Components can be split into smaller components 
- Props are READ ONLY, cannot modify it. React Components must be like pure functions. 

## Handling Events FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html
- Handling events in React is similar to the way events are handled with DOM elements. 
  - React events are camelCase
  - JSX: Functions are passed as an event handler (not a string).
  - Must use `e.preventDefault()` instead of `return false` to prevent default behavior. 
  - In React, you can use a listener like (onClick=) instead of addEventListener. 
    - Bind callbacks. Can use public class fields syntax or callback. Recommendation: bind in the constructor or use class fields syntax (to avoid extra re-rendering).
  - Can pass multiple parameters to an event handler. 

## Snapshot Testing FROM https://jestjs.io/docs/en/snapshot-testing
- Snapshot testing: Useful for making sure UI doesn't have unexpected changes.
- Compares two snapshots. Test passes if they match and fails if they don't. 
- Failed Jest tests: Reason 1, problem with component. Reason 2, implementation changed and snapshot needs to be updated. 
  - update snapshot - `jest --updateSnapshot`
  - Terminal 'Watch Usage' let you select which ones to run, update, filter, or quit. 

  ```js
  // Example snapshot test FROM SITE 
  it('renders correctly', () => {
  const tree = renderer
    .create(<Link page="http://www.instagram.com">Instagram</Link>)
    .toJSON();
  expect(tree).toMatchSnapshot();
  });
  ```

- Inline Snapshots
  - Behave the same as external (.snap files) snapshots, but snapshot values are automatically written back into source code. Don't need to switch between files.
  - Powered by Prettier. Must have Prettier installed in project to use this. 
  - expect part in tests. Call `.toMatchInlineSnapshot()` with no arguments. 

- Property Matchers:
  - checks value before snapshot is written or tested. That is saved instead of received value. Uses `any`. 

- Best Practices: 
  - Treat snapshots as code. Commit and review them. Keep them focused and readable. Can install additional tools like `eslint-plugin-jest`, `no-large-snapshots`, or `snapshot-diff`. 
  - Tests should produce the same result on an unchanged component. If you have something like a Clock, you can create a mock so the `Date.now` always produces the same value. Snapshots will be the same. 
  - Use descriptive snapshot names


## Introducing the react-testing-library FROM https://kentcdodds.com/blog/introducing-the-react-testing-library
- PROBLEM: Do not want tests to not focus on implementation. Don't want tests to break when implementation changes. SOLUTION: react-testing-library. A lightweight library for testing React components. 

- react-testing-library:
  - works with DOM nodes. Queries the DOM like a user. 
  - tests are closer to **how a user would use the components** -> more confidence 
  - react-testing-library replaces enzyme 
  - react-testing-library intended for react-dom
  - NOTE: React Testing Library is not a test runner, framework, or specific to a testing framework (note: Jest is preferred, but it works with any testing framework!). 
  - provides many different `getBy...` utilities. (e.g., getBytext, getByAltText, etc.).
    - useful error message if no element is found

