## Hooks at a Glance FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-overview.html
- Hook started in React 16.8. Can use state and other React features with using a class. 
- Can use pre-build hooks or make your own custom hooks

**Example Hooks** (import hooks at the top of page `import React, { hookName } from 'react'`)
- State Hook: `useState()` (similar to `this.setState()`)
  - Sets something to local state, state persists during re-renders. 
  - `useState()` only takes an argument of initial state and it doesn't need to be an object. 
  - can use State Hook multiple times in a component

  ```js
  // Example FROM SITE 
  function ExampleWithManyStates() {
    // Declare multiple state variables!
    const [age, setAge] = useState(42);
    const [fruit, setFruit] = useState('banana');
    const [todos, setTodos] = useState([{ text: 'Learn Hooks' }]);
    // ...
    }
  ```
- (Side) Effect Hook: `useEffect()` (similar to `componentDidMount()`, `componentDidUpdate()`, and `componentWillUnmount()`)
  - ability to perform side effects using a function component
  - declared inside a component and has access to props and state
  - can use this hook more than once in a component  

  ```js 
  // Example FROM SITE
  // When page loads, after a click, update the DOM with the amount of times the button what clicked using the 'count' from state. 
    // Similar to componentDidMount and componentDidUpdate:
    useEffect(() => {
    // Update the document title using the browser API
    document.title = `You clicked ${count} times`;
  });
  ```

- Less common hooks - `useContext()` and `useReducer()`

**Rules of Hooks**
- Hooks are like JS functions with more rules 
  - Rule 1: Call at the top level - don't call Hooks inside loops, conditionals or nested functions. 
  - Rule 2: Call from React function components - don't call from JS functions

**Custom Hooks**
- Write your own hook. Names start with 'use' --> `useNameOfCustomHook()`
- Good for reusing stateful logic
- When hook is called, it is isolated


## Using the State Hook FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html
- Hooks don't work inside classes. They can replace classes. 
- Function components " stateless components". Hooks let you use React state in component --> preferred name "function components" 

**Process** 
- Import at the top `import React, { useState } from 'react';` 
- When to use a hook: if you are in a function component and need state, use a hook instead of rewriting it as a class. 
- Declare state: use array destructuring --> names can be anything but the update state function generally starts with 'set'. `[something, setSomething]`
  - Hook: `const [count (state), setCount (update state function)] = useState(0);` 
  - replaces `this.state = { count: 0 }` or `this.setState()`
- Argument: `useState(initial state)` takes in initial state 
  Returns: `useState()` returns two values: current state and the function that updates state
- Read state: {count} `<p>You clicked {count} times</p>` replaces {this.state.count} `<p>You clicked {this.state.count} times</p>`
- Update state: Instead of `this.setState( {count: this.state.count + 1} )` you can use the `setCount(count + 1)` note, count is from state.
- Note: update state function `setSomething()` replaces state instead of merging it. 

## Using the Effect Hook FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html
- perform side effects on function components 
- import at the top of the document 
- hooks use js closures 
- hook runs after every render, runs after first render and every update. 
  - mounting and updating --> after render
  - once dom updates, hook runs 
- update browser with the amount of times a button was clicked using a use effect -- `document.title = ``You clicked ${count} times`.
- hook makes app feel more responsive than componentDidMount or componentDidUpdate as it does not block the browser from updating the screen.
- Some effects don't require cleanup
- Effects with Cleanup (side effects that require cleanup)
  - cleanup can help prevent memory leaks (subscription example)
  - use function inside effect 
  - react cleans up after component unmounted. React cleans up before each render
- Tips for Using Effect 
  - Good for separating unrelated logic into different effects (e.g., lick count and online status change)
  - Effects hook is run in the order
  - common bug: forgetting to use `componentDidUpdate()` properly is a common reason for bugs in React apps.
  - the effect hook handles updates 
- Skip effects to optimize performance 
  - class component, compare prevProps/prevState and this.state inside componentDidUpdate 
  - effect hook, pass hook an array of `[count]` and the re-runs effect if the count/something changes.

## Hooks API Reference FROM https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html
- Basic Hooks:
  - `useState()`- managing state
  - `useEffect()` - `useEffect(didUpdate)`. Default: runs after render but you can choose to render only if something updates (by passing hook a second argument)
  - `useContext()` -  `useContext(MyContext)`
    - component calling context hook will re-render when context value changes. 
    - can optimize by using memoization
      - memoization: used for speeding up computer programs by returning cached result if the same inputs happen again.
- Additional Hooks - variants of basic hooks and are used for edge cases 
  - `useReducer()` - ALT for `useState()` managing state objects with multiple sub values
  - `useCallback()`- Returns memoized callback
  - `useMemo()` - returns memoized value. Only computers when a dependency value changes. Overs expensive calculations on re-renders. Used for optimizing performance. 
  - `useRef()` - `useRef(initialValue)` Returns a mutable ref object and it will persist for entire lifetime of component. 
  - `useImperativeHandle()` - `useImperativeHandle(ref, createHandle, [deps])`
  - `useLayoutEffect()` - like useEffect but is synchronous
  - `useDebugValue()` - `useDebugValue(value)` can also accept a second parameter (an optional formatting function). 
